avalanche_foundry/README.md, before:

## [WIP] 🧱👵🏽 inspecting old blocks in avalanche

<br>

### tl; dr

<br>

##### 🛠 in this project, we use [foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry) to analyze blocks history in the avalanche blockchain. this can be used for several purposes, including testing vulnerabilities or extracting mev data.

##### 📚 for more details, check my mirror post ["foundry, avalanche, and historical shenanigans"](https://mirror.xyz/steinkirch.eth/Nzlw7ub7HFVa-LnP4kEKeiDtPcmzUkYlI2BJG_StVX8).

##### 🚨 disclaimer: i am not responsible for anything you do with my free code.


<br>

----

### installing

<br>

install [foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation)



add config info to `.env`, including an RPC for avalanche (*e.g.*, [ankr's](https://www.ankr.com/rpc/avalanche/)):

```
cp .env_example .env
vim .env
```


<br>

---

### examples

<br>

#### simulating sandwich attack

<br>

1. follow the installation and setup above.
2. define the desired assets and/or protocols to research, and find out the methods that update price.
3. use any blockchain analytic tool (*e.g.,* [dune](https://dune.com/home) or [avax apis](https://docs.avax.network/apis/avalanchego/public-api-server)) to search for past blocks with a considerable price movement. 
4. take note of the block numbers you want to analyze and add them to `data/blocks.txt`. there is one example there already to get you started.
5. run this code by following the instructions above, and check the results in `results/`.

Commit message:

add notes on gathering data

avalanche_foundry/README.md, after:

## [WIP] 🧱👵🏽 inspecting old blocks in avalanche

<br>

### tl; dr

<br>

##### 🛠 in this project, we use [foundry](https://github.com/foundry-rs/foundry) to analyze blocks history in the avalanche blockchain. this can be used for several purposes, including testing vulnerabilities or extracting mev data.

##### 📚 for more details, check my mirror post ["foundry, avalanche, and historical shenanigans"](https://mirror.xyz/steinkirch.eth/Nzlw7ub7HFVa-LnP4kEKeiDtPcmzUkYlI2BJG_StVX8).

##### 🚨 disclaimer: i am not responsible for anything you do with my free code.


<br>

----

### installing

<br>

1. install [foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation)
2. add a config info to `.env`, including an RPC for avalanche (*e.g.*, [ankr's](https://www.ankr.com/rpc/avalanche/)):

```
cp .env_example .env
vim .env
```


<br>

---

### simulating sandwich attacks

<br>

#### gathering data

<br>

1. define the desired assets and/or protocols you want to research research, and find out the methods that update their prices.
3. use any blockchain analytic tool (*e.g.,* [dune](https://dune.com/home) or [avax apis](https://docs.avax.network/apis/avalanchego/public-api-server)) to search for past blocks with a considerable price movement. 
4. create a list of the block numbers you want to analyze and add them to `data/blocks.txt`. there is one example there already to get you started.

<br>

#### running this code
